---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/1-1b-participatory-theatre-can-cushion-the-debate/","dg-note-properties":{}}
---


According to some scholars, participatory theater dampens the subject matter rather than making the debate more vivid. These intellectuals believe that technological devices or reenactment performances are merely expedients through which the audience enters into an experience, remaining captivated by narrative and aesthetic ploys.

### Roberto Fratini’s Critique of Participatory Art

> "Although the declared intent of much participatory or immersive theater is didactic, dialectic, or political, its way of operating and its effects are more psychagogic than ethical, more visceral than intellectual." — **Roberto Fratini**

We begin with the premise that visceral and therefore physical experience is, in some respects, more potent than intellectual experience. Furthermore, there is the effect of "distance": as a spectator, I am not required to position myself to open a debate or take a stand. As a participant, I find myself directly within the situation, embodying something else or someone else, as seen in Rimini Protokoll’s _The Assembly of the Absent_.

> "A theater that aspires to resolve or debate the distortions of reality with the participation of a real audience almost always ends up satisfying that audience with an experience of emotion and involvement an 'animation' in a broad sense that cushions any serious possibility of debate." — **Roberto Fratini**

### Constructing the Enemy
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.4b_Inventing the Enemy\|2.4b_Inventing the Enemy]]

Participatory theater should not necessarily resolve or debate a political topic; rather, it makes the mechanisms of a system visible. Often, it is insufficient to "show" a system frontally; sometimes, there is a necessity to participate in it. Putting oneself in the shoes of the "enemy"—those who are different from us—is one of the few ways to understand ourselves and our own political positions.

While I consider "witnessing" to be a political act no less powerful than "participating," different tools exist for different purposes: drills and scalpels, shovels and spades.

### Critical Now
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.1_Critical Now\|2.1_Critical Now]]

Regarding what is critical today and the potential of participatory theater: "Political" art is not only reflected in the performance itself but also in one's position as an artist, in production choices, and in much more:

---
Previous:
[[00_Permanent_notes/1.1a_only_the_actor-foreigner_can_reveal_the hidden_part_of_the_place\|1.1a_only_the_actor-foreigner_can_reveal_the hidden_part_of_the_place]]

See also:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.2_Positioning as an artist\|2.2_Positioning as an artist]]