---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/1-1c-the-rule-of-the-rule-alone-for-the-performer-and-the-spectator/","noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{}}
---

To make a participatory project, it is necessary to have a single rule. A rule that determines the roles of the spectator and the performer. When we watch a standard performance, the rule is already inherent in the theatrical structure: the spectator is seated and watches, the performer is on stage and acts. In the case of a "participatory" project, it is precisely this rule that is missing. For this reason, the first thing to do is to conceive a new rule, a new pact between spectators and performers.

The rule chosen is what reflects the subject. In reality, the rule itself, or participatory device, is nothing more than the mechanism behind the subject itself.

Rimini Protokoll’s _Conference of the Absent_ is a perfect example: A project in which the audience is invited to interpret people who cannot be physically present on stage. Based on age, gender, and origin, someone from the audience is selected, handed headphones, and must repeat what they hear. Among the people represented were: an astronaut, a journalist in a war zone, an exile, and an exponent of the movement for human extinction.

The subject of this project is absence itself, and it is immensely powerful to represent absence precisely without the interlocutors, but by using a device that turns the audience into the performers themselves.

[[00_Permanent_notes/1.3b1_Che cosa è il fascismo_1971_Fabio Mauri\|1.3b1_Che cosa è il fascismo_1971_Fabio Mauri]] (In this case the only rule appears precisely in the title)

---

Previous:
[[00_Permanent_notes/1.1b_participatory_theatre_can_cushion_the debate\|1.1b_participatory_theatre_can_cushion_the debate]]

See also:
[[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Munari method\|Munari method]]
