---
{"id":"1.1d","tags":["performingarts"],"created":"2025-09-28","dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/1-1d-fantasizing-about-the-audience/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{"id":"1.1d","tags":["performingarts"],"created":"2025-09-28"}}
---

---

# 1.1d_Fantasizing about the audience

If we start from ourselves: what are the first things that come to mind when we think of a project?

Which spaces, public settings, or situations come to mind first? When I move my research project into a community, what are the objectives of this operation?

What is the relationship with our overall research trajectory? What is the common thread between the research and specific projects?

What power do I gain?

What is the impact (the agency) that I manage to achieve when I bring something "outside"?

What is our spectrum of relationship with the community? How personally involved am I with the community?

Perhaps communities do not exist; people do not recognize themselves in a community. (In that case, "audiences" do not exist either, because they are diverse and multi-faceted, and individual people obviously may not recognize themselves as an audience; rather, it is a form of simplification tied to representation). Reflecting on how to work with/on communities.

What comes to mind first when we think of the audience? Which audience comes to mind first? What do we think of the audience? Does the audience have a role in one's research, and if so, in what way? What can the audience do? How do you prepare the audience? Does the audience have the power to change or alter the project?

There are different audiences: there are "curated" audiences—those who purchase a ticket, a contract—and audiences that are not curated, the audience of the street.


> [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Urgency meeting 26-09-25\|Urgency meeting 26-09-25]]

---
Previous:
[[00_Permanent_notes/1.1c_The rule of the rule alone for the performer and the spectator\|1.1c_The rule of the rule alone for the performer and the spectator]]

---

See also:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3a1_Research is debt\|2.3a1_Research is debt]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3c_Debt is productive\|2.3c_Debt is productive]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/3.2_Communities must be conserved and not restored\|3.2_Communities must be conserved and not restored]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.4_alter-politics or the study of other ways of being\|2.4_alter-politics or the study of other ways of being]]

[[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Munari method\|Munari method]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/1.4b1_Bruno Munari\|1.4b1_Bruno Munari]]

---
Used in: