---
{"id":"2.2","tags":["Lund"],"created":"2025-09-28","dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/2-2-positioning-as-an-artist/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{"id":"2.2","tags":["Lund"],"created":"2025-09-28"}}
---

---

# Positioning as an artist

Regarding positioning, it is essential to consider that as artists we must take responsibility for the various apparatuses of our work:

1. **Creation:** the formalization of the project.
2. **Production:** the search for funding.
3. **Distribution:** the dissemination of the project.

These three components must be an integral part of the artistic research; they must remain consistent with the vision being pursued. (This concept was suggested to me by Eleonora Fabião).

### The Artistic Project of Va-Bene

(https://www.crazinistartist.com/)

Beyond the principle of using the enemy's weapons against them—meaning reaching out to the people on the street and engaging with violence in the same way the enemy does.

As a trans, African artist, she has leveraged her "privilege" as an international artist for the benefit of her birthplace. She established a residency by asking: **Why and for whom?** Her vision was not a comfortable space, but a space for everyone. Not a safe space, but a **brave space**, with the goal of involving new African generations in the arts.


> [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Symposium Critical Now 25-09-25\|Symposium Critical Now 25-09-25]]
> [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Urgency meeting 26-09-25\|Urgency meeting 26-09-25]]

---
Previous:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.1_Critical Now\|2.1_Critical Now]]

---

See also:
[[00_Permanent_notes/1.3a1_We here between sky and earth_2021_Eleonora Fabião\|1.3a1_We here between sky and earth_2021_Eleonora Fabião]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.2a_Negotiation is a key_Eleonora Fabião\|2.2a_Negotiation is a key_Eleonora Fabião]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.5_All life is semiotic\|2.5_All life is semiotic]]
[[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Munari method\|Munari method]]

---
Used in: