---
{"id":"2.2b","tags":["Lund"],"created":"2025-10-08","dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/2-2b-criticality-recognising-the-limations-of-ones-thought/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{"id":"2.2b","tags":["Lund"],"created":"2025-10-08"}}
---

---

# Criticality: recognizing the limitations of one's own thought.

Understanding the boundaries of our thinking and abandoning our preconceptions is essential for the purpose of conceiving new structures. What should the theater I make look like? It means abandoning everything that is conventionally viewed as "theater" in the West. Proposing new structures necessitates abandoning those of the past.

Viewing critique through the lens of seeing causes rather than effects allows us to perceive the possibilities and potential in making something contemporary, instead of merely focusing on its flaws. In essence, it involves reasoning about mechanisms rather than filtering them through one’s own solidified values to decree the success of a project.

>(original article) https://transversal.at/transversal/0806/rogoff1/en
> 
>(my notes) [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/From Criticism to Critique to Criticality - Un teorico è colui che è stato rovinato dalla teoria.\|From Criticism to Critique to Criticality - Un teorico è colui che è stato rovinato dalla teoria.]]
>
> 'Criticality' as I perceive it is precisely in the operations of recognising the limitations of one's thought for one does not learn something new until one unlearns something old, otherwise one is simply adding information rather than rethinking a structure.


> In the project of ‘criticism’ we are mainly preoccupied with the application of values and judgements, operating from a barely acknowledged humanist index of measure sustained in turn by naturalised beliefs and disavowed interests. The project of ‘critique’ which negated that of ‘criticism’ through numerous layers of poststructuralist theory and the linked spheres of sexual difference and post colonialism, has served as an extraordinary examination of all of the assumptions and naturalised values and thought structures that have sustained the inherited truth claims of knowledge. ==Critique, in all of its myriad complexities has allowed us to unveil, uncover and critically re-examine the convincing logics and operations of such truth claims. However, for all of its mighty critical apparatus and its immense and continuing value, critique has sustained a certain external knowingness==, a certain ability to look in from the outside and unravel and examine and expose that which had seemingly lay hidden within the folds of structured knowledge. The ever increasing emphasis on allocating blames and pointing out elisions and injustices has created alliances between critique and such political projects as ‘identity politics’ and diminished the complex potentiality of occupying culture through a set of productive dualities and ambiguities.

---

It is necessary to abandon "bodies of consciousness" and "renounce certain belongings"—because one does not learn something new until they unlearn something old; otherwise, one is merely adding information rather than rethinking a structure.

---
Previous:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.2a_Negotiation is a key_Eleonora Fabião\|2.2a_Negotiation is a key_Eleonora Fabião]]

---

See also:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.1_Critical Now\|2.1_Critical Now]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3c_Debt is productive\|2.3c_Debt is productive]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.2_Positioning as an artist\|2.2_Positioning as an artist]]
