---
{"id":"2.3","tags":null,"created":"2025-08-22","dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/2-3-studying-is-a-loss-making-investment/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{"id":"2.3","tags":null,"created":"2025-08-22"}}
---

---

# Studying is a loss-making investment.

The power a student holds is the ability to contract a debt that they do not have to pay. Even though credit attempts to persuade the student to learn and capitalize on the production of their study, the student goes further. They go beyond, seeking to find and accumulate even more debt by studying even more. If they were to capitalize on what they study—and thus learn—they would conclude their research.


> [[Debt and Study_Fred Moten_Stefano Harney_2010]
> EN: The student is not home, out of time, out of place, without credit, in bad debt. The student is a bad debtor threatened with credit. The student runs from credit. Credit pursues the student, offering to match credit for debt until enough debts and enough credits have piled up. But the student has a habit, a bad habit. She studies. She studies but she does not learn. If she learned, they could measure her progress, confirm her attributes, give her credit. But the student keeps studying, keeps planning to study, keeps running to study, keeps study a plan, keeps building a debt. The student does not intend to pay.




---
Previous:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.2b_Criticality recognising the limations of ones thought\|2.2b_Criticality recognising the limations of ones thought]]

---

Vedi anche:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3a_Forgiving the student debt is always unjust\|2.3a_Forgiving the student debt is always unjust]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3a_Forgiving the student debt is always unjust\|2.3a_Forgiving the student debt is always unjust]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3a1_Research is debt\|2.3a1_Research is debt]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3b_Debt is autistic it is in its own world\|2.3b_Debt is autistic it is in its own world]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3c_Debt is productive\|2.3c_Debt is productive]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3c1_The true function of university credits\|2.3c1_The true function of university credits]]

---
Usato in: 

