---
{"id":"2.4a","tags":null,"created":"2025-08-22","dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/2-4a-molecular-revolution/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{"id":"2.4a","tags":null,"created":"2025-08-22"}}
---

---

Molecular Revolution

The molecular revolution is an action that takes place on a small scale. Its characteristics are:

- Inseparable from the context and from large-scale revolutions (called molar).
- It is active within the economy of desire.
- It does not apply only to political systems but also within the smallest cogs of society.
- It implies a multitude of molecular mutations of desire. The continuous desire to liberate areas of desire. An irrepressible aspiration.
- It is transversal, gradual, and branched, and acts through agents that are located beneath the systems of power.
- It is not centered on quantitative goals (such as standard of living) but questions the quality of life and the right to desire. It ambitiously aims to rethink relationships and the perception of time.
- It challenges traditional systems, regarding the body, sex, and the universe.
- It amplifies itself with small-scale "mini-projects" (such as neighborhood committees and daycare centers).

> [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Rivoluzione Molecolare_Félix Guattari\|Rivoluzione Molecolare_Félix Guattari]]

---
p:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.4_alter-politics or the study of other ways of being\|2.4_alter-politics or the study of other ways of being]]

---

sa:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.2a_Negotiation is a key_Eleonora Fabião\|2.2a_Negotiation is a key_Eleonora Fabião]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.1_Critical Now\|2.1_Critical Now]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/3.2_Communities must be conserved and not restored\|3.2_Communities must be conserved and not restored]]