---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/2-4b-inventing-the-enemy/","dg-note-properties":{"id":"2.4b","tags":null,"created":"2025-10-13"}}
---


## What is the enemy?

"Having an enemy is important not only to define our identity but also to provide us with an obstacle against which to measure our value system and, in facing it, to demonstrate our own worth." The enemy is a tool for confronting our identity, allowing us to test our values and display our worth through conflict.

### The Ethical Enemy

The enemy is also used by pacifist individuals and cannot be excluded from the process of civilization. Even for groups opposing capitalist exploitation, the enemy is no longer a human object but a social force. The enemy is a need inherent in humanity. Ethics lies in putting oneself in the enemy's shoes and understanding them, rather than pretending they do not exist (as Aeschylus did with _The Persians_, where tragedy lives through their eyes). We can recognize ourselves through the other, but very often the other is something different from us and forces us to confront what we are not. For this reason, in this conflictual process of individuation, we reduce the other to an enemy.

### War is Inevitable for Individuation

The enemy is part of the identity process, and war is inevitable for the process of individuation. Without war, the state that defends us and acts as a guarantor of security would not exist. Peace produces instability; war unites.

"Finally, it is war that allows for the development of a truly 'humanistic' art, in which conflict situations predominate."

### The State's Enemy

It is impossible not to have an enemy. Enemies can be internal or external. The USA entered a crisis after defeating the USSR until Bin Laden appeared. Italy has no ongoing wars, but it has very heated internal conflicts (immigration, mafia, fascists, and partisans).

### The Foreigner and the Woman as Enemy

Enemies are different from us and have strange customs and habits. The quintessential "other" is the foreigner. The foreigner is threatening and displays how different they are; it is precisely their diversity that is threatening.

One of the historical enemies is the woman, given that it is men who write and govern; from misogyny, the concept of the "witch" was constructed. From being a repugnant being, she became a social enemy deserving of the stake. The process for witchcraft, or for the Inquisition in general, not only defines the enemy and describes them but convinces the "witch" herself that she is one, leading her to confess to things she never did. Even in the Stalinist show trials, the image of the enemy was constructed first, and then the victim was convinced to recognize themselves in that image. There are cases in literature where the "other," the enemy, accepts the condition imposed by society and turns it into a weapon (Richard III, The Ugly Duckling).

---

> [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Inventing the Enemy_Umberto Eco_2011\|Inventing the Enemy_Umberto Eco_2011]]

---
p:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.4a_Molecular Revolution\|2.4a_Molecular Revolution]]


---

sa:
[[00_Permanent_notes/1.3b1_Che cosa è il fascismo_1971_Fabio Mauri\|1.3b1_Che cosa è il fascismo_1971_Fabio Mauri]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/1.1a_only_the_actor-foreigner_can_reveal_the hidden_part_of_the_place\|1.1a_only_the_actor-foreigner_can_reveal_the hidden_part_of_the_place]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/3.3a_How the Runa Puma define the world\|3.3a_How the Runa Puma define the world]]