---
{"id":"3.1","tags":null,"created":"2025-08-22","dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/3-1-the-hikikomori-escapes-the-debt-credit-dynamic/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{"id":"3.1","tags":null,"created":"2025-08-22"}}
---

---

# The Hikikomori escapes the debt-credit dynamic.

To escape the pressures of debt and credit, the Hikikomori withdraws. They escape from the credit-debt dynamics of society. For Bifo, it is a search for autonomy, conceiving a new present world.

> [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Bifo - Ikikomori of the world unite\|Bifo - Ikikomori of the world unite]]
> Franco "Bifo" Berardi (in a seminar, 2000): Hikikomori is the avant garde because he is doing the only one healthy gesture in a world of competition, exploitation, aggressivity and social humiliation: refusing socialisation, breaking the tie, escaping in the space of virtuality and darkness and loneliness.  It is not funny, I know. I do not want to be an hikikomori, and I do not suggest to anybody to be an hikikomori. But I recognize the meaning, and the implicit intention. It's better to be self-recluded than living all the day in the terror, anxiety, aggression and humiliation. It's better to live with no money than giving away your life for a salary.

(see also: [[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Debt and Study_Fred Moten_Stefano Harney_2010\|Debt and Study_Fred Moten_Stefano Harney_2010]])

---
p:
[[00_Permanent_notes/3_anthropology\|3_anthropology]]


---

sa:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3c_Debt is productive\|2.3c_Debt is productive]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/3.2_Communities must be conserved and not restored\|3.2_Communities must be conserved and not restored]]
