---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-permanent-notes/3-2-communities-must-be-conserved-and-not-restored/","noteIcon":"","dg-note-properties":{"id":"3.2","tags":null,"created":"2025-08-22"}}
---

---

# Communities must be conserved and not restored

Communities operate outside the system, emerging unexpectedly where progress halts, escaping policies and the grip of power. For power—the creditor—these entities are merely forgotten residues, viewed as debtors, debtors at a distance: bad debtors. Debtors who are never forgiven.

For this reason, communities do not need to be restored because they must live in the shadows. They need to be conserved; changing and moving is necessary to escape the "creditor." They must protect themselves from restoration, remaining beyond the reach of justice and law, in bad country, in bad debt.

>[[00_VOULT/02_REFERENCE NOTES/Debt and Study_Fred Moten_Stefano Harney_2010\|Debt and Study_Fred Moten_Stefano Harney_2010]]
> "Communities do not need to be restored. They need to be conserved, which is to say they need to be moved, hidden, restard with the same joke, the same story, always somewhere other than where the long arm of the creditor seeks them - conserved from restoration, beyond justice, beyond law, in bad country, in bad debt.
> 
> Communities are planned when they are least expected, planned when they don't follow the process, when they escape policy, evade governance, forget themselves, remember themselves, have no need of forgiveness. They are never wrong. They are not actually communities, but debtors at a distance - bad debtors, forgotten but never forgiven."

---
p:
[[00_Permanent_notes/3.1_The Hikikomori escapes the debt-credit dynamic\|3.1_The Hikikomori escapes the debt-credit dynamic]]

---

sa:
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3a_Forgiving the student debt is always unjust\|2.3a_Forgiving the student debt is always unjust]]
[[00_Permanent_notes/2.3_Studying is a loss-making investment\|2.3_Studying is a loss-making investment]]
